Thank you. Iowa, thank you. Nine months ago,
we came to this beautiful state. We had no
political organization; we had no money; no
name recognition. And we were taking on the
most powerful political organization in the
United States of America.
And tonight while the results are still not
known, it looks like we are in a virtual tie.
And while the results are still not complete,
it looks like we'll have half of the Iowa
delegates. I want to take this opportunity
to congratulate Secretary Clinton, somebody
-- yep -- and her organization for waging
a very vigorous campaign.
And I want to thank Governor O'Malley. It's
never easy to lose. I've lost more than one
campaign. But he should know that he contributed
a whole lot to the dialogue, that he ran an
issue-oriented campaign, and he won the respect
of the American people... If I think about
what happened tonight, I think the people
of Iowa have sent a very profound message
to the political establishment, to the economic
establishment, and, by the way, to the media
establishment.
...Given the enormous crises facing our country,
it is just too late for establishment politics
and establishment economics. What the American
people have said — and by the way, I hear
this not just from progressives, I hear it
from conservatives, I hear it from moderates
— that is: 'We can no longer continue to
have a corrupt campaign finance system.' 
I am the former chairman of the Senate veteran's
committee. In that capacity, not only have
I worked hard to try to protect the interest
of our veterans, I've had the privilege of
meeting so many, men and women, who put their
lives on the line to defend us and protect
our way of life.
And what they were protecting is an American
democracy of: One person, one vote. Not billionaires
buying elections. I am overwhelmed, and I
am moved by the fact that millions of people
throughout this country have helped volunteer
in our campaign, that three -- we have received
in this campaign 3.5 million individual contributions.
People who went to BernieSanders.com. And
you know what the average contribution was?
It was $27!
We do not represent the interests of the billionaire
class, Wall Street or corporate America. We
don't want their money. We will -- and I am
very proud to tell you, we are the only candidate
on the Democratic side without a super PAC.
And the reason that we have done so well here
in Iowa, the reason I believe we're going
to do so well in New Hampshire, and in the
other states that follow, the reason is, the
American people are saying, 'no to a rigged
economy.' They no longer want to see an economy
in which the average American works longer
hours for low wages while almost all new income
and wealth is going to the top 1%.
What the American people understand is this
country was based and is based on fairness.
It is not fair when the top 1/10th of 1% today
owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%.
It is not fair when the 20 wealthiest people
in this country own more wealth than the bottom
half of America. So you guys ready for a radical
idea? Well, so is America. And that radical
idea is, we are going to create an economy
that works for working families not just the
billionaire class.
And when millions of our people are working
for starvation wages, we are going to raise
the minimum wage to $15 an hour. And, yes,
we are going to have pay equity for women.
I've been all over this state of Iowa: We
have spoken to some 70,000 people, and in
meeting after meeting, I hear people standing
up and, they say: 'Bernie, I went to college.
I graduated college — now I am 60, 80, 90
thousand dollars in debt. That is crazy. That
is crazy. They want to get a decent education;
they should not be punished.
That is why I believe in the year 2016, public
colleges and universities should be tuition
free. And then my critics say, well, Bernie,
that's a great idea, all this free stuff,
how are you going to pay for it? I will tell
you how we will pay for it, we are going to
impose a tax on Wall Street speculation. The
greed, the recklessness and the illegal behavior
of Wall Street drove this economy to its knees.
The American people bailed out Wall Street,
now it's Wall Street's time to help the middle
class. And when we talk about transforming
America. We will end the disgrace of having
more people in jail than any other country.
Disproportionately African-American and Latino.
What we are going to do is provide jobs and
education for our kids not more jails and
incarceration. I'll tell you something that
really does astound me. I'm on the senate
energy committee — on the senate environmental
committee — I have talked to scientists
all over the world. The debate is over: Climate
change is real. And we have a moral responsibility
to work with countries throughout the world
to transform our energy system away from fossil
fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable
energy.
What amazes me, what totally amazes me, is
that we have not one Republican candidate
for president prepared to come up and tell
us, and agree with what virtually all scientists
agree with, and you know why they are not
prepared to do that? Because on the day that
they do acknowledge the reality of climate
change and call for change, you know what
happens? They're going to lose their campaign
funds from the Koch brothers and the fossil
fuel (industry) ...
So I say to the Republicans, stop worrying
about your campaign funds from big oil or
the Koch brothers worry about the planet you're
going to be leaving your children and your
grandchildren. Now, I have been criticized
during this campaign for many, many things.
Every single day. That's okay. That's okay.
But let me repeat what I believe. I believe
that at a time when every major country on
Earth guarantees health care to all people
as a right, that I believe that we should
do the same in the United States of America.
So for all of my critics out there in the
Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post
and in corporate America, wherever you may
be, let me tell you straight up, yes, I believe
that health care is a right, not a privilege!
And that is why I believe in a Medicare for
all single payer program which will not only
guarantee health care to all, it will not
only end the pharmaceutical ripoff of the
American people but it will save the middle
class family, the average middle-class family
thousands of dollars a year in health care
costs.
Let me conclude by saying what no other candidate
for president will tell you. And that is that
no president, not Bernie Sanders, not anybody
else, will be able to bring about the changes
that the working families and the middle class
of this country, that our children, that the
seniors, our seniors deserve. No one president
can do it because the powers that be, Wall
Street with their endless supply of money,
corporate America, the large campaign donors
are so powerful that no president can do what
has to be done alone. And that is why -- and
that is why what Iowa has begun tonight is
a political revolution.
A political revolution that says when millions
of people come together, including those who've
given up on the political process, they're
so dismayed and so frustrated with what goes
on in Washington, with young people who before
had never been involved in the political process,
when young people and working people and seniors
begin to stand up and say loudly and clearly,
enough is enough, that our government, the
government of our great country belongs to
all of us and not just a handful of billionaires,
when that happens we will transform this country.
Thank you all very much.